[Gasp]
Hi, there, Cosmo!
How are you doing today?
Be sure to give your
mother our regards.
We'll see you later, Cosmo!
Okay! Goodbye!
Ah!
Galaxina!
There you are, Cosmo.
You've had Mother
worrying all afternoon.
I didn't mean to.
I was playing my
pretend game again,
and I must have forgotten
what time it was.
Don't worry, little Cosmo.
We're all pretty used to
your daydreaming by now.
Ah.
Hmph.
Sorry to worry you, Mother.
She was dreaming again.
Like always.
Hey, have you ever wondered
if Mother likes to
daydream too, sometimes?
Well, maybe.
I'll bet she dreams about
being back home again,
like I do.
Yes.
I'm sure it's a great
comfort to her, to
hope that one day, we'll
all be back there.
Galaxina,
the Elders say we'll be journeying
through space like this forever.
Not forever, Cosmo.
Just until we destroy the evil
Metarex monsters for good.
Only then can we rest, and search
for a new planet to call home.
Ah.
Come on, let's go!
Mother has many
errands for us today.
Yes.
Oh!
Goodbye, Mother. See you later!
Go, go, go, go, go
Gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Movin' at the speed of sound,
quickest hedgehog around
Got ourselves a situation
Stuck in a new location
Without any explanation
No talk of relaxation
Don't, don't, don't
Don't blink, don't think
Just go, go, go, go
Go, go
Sonic is on the run
Sonic, he's number one
Sonic, he's coming next,
so watch out for Sonic X
- Gotta go fast
- Sonic
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go
Sonic X
Gotta go faster,
gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster
Sonic X
Aaaah!
Aah!
[Whimpering]
Metarex approaching!
Sectors 3 and 7 have been
irreparably damaged.
We can't fight them much longer.
We have to stop them!
Ah!
[Panting]
Aah!
Cosmo!
Huh?
[Beeping]
My com link's indicating
there's a Chaos Emerald
somewhere nearby.
But it won't pinpoint
where, exactly.
Could be this one's
buried way underground
where it's hard to get to.
Just means we're all gonna
have to work a little harder
to find it, that's all.
Well, let's not all stand
here twiddling our thumbs.
Let's look for this thing!
Yeah! Move it down there, will ya?
- Huh?
Ah!
Good luck everybody!
Be careful, okay?
Poor Cosmo.
I wish we could cheer
her up somehow.
Chao chao!
Hmm.
It's not easy when your
family's not around.
In fact, it's just about the
loneliest feeling in the world.
TAILS: Why do I have
a sneaking suspicion
the Metarex have been here, too?
This place gives me the creeps.
Yup. Just another sad ex-planet.
Look around...
Families lived here once.
Children played all day
without a care in the world.
They didn't know what was coming.
Now they're all gone,
just like Mother and Galaxina.
And they'll never come back.
[Sigh]
Sometimes I miss them so much.
Huh?
What's that?
[Gasp]
Nothing.
Take a look at this, Tails!
This has to be at
least a mile deep!
[Beeping]
This is it, you guys.
The Chaos Emerald's
down there somewhere.
[Grunting]
[Gasp]
Look! A cave!
You two go check it out.
We're on it!
Be careful, Tails.
It's dark in here.
[Gasp]
What's the matter?
I'm not sure. It felt
like some kind of-
[Both screaming]
Aaah! Cosmo! Aah!
[Screaming]
They're sealed in! Hang on!
Please, Tails. Oh, please be okay.
What happened?
[Gasp]
Careful, you're hurt.
I... I'm feeling kinda dizzy.
Huh?
Strange.
I remember walking inside the cave,
and then hearing this rumbling,
and then I must've passed out.
It's my fault.
If I hadn't touched that thing,
then none of this
would've happened.
The button!
I remember now.
Hey, don't feel too bad, Cosmo.
This is a good thing.
We'll tell Chris where we are,
and then we'll start
looking around.
What if the Metarex are in here?
Chris, Amy, do you read me?
No, good. We must've
lost our connection.
I'm sorry.
Don't worry, Cosmo. We'll
make the most of it.
[Beeping]
We're still getting a reading,
so the Emerald's gotta
be down here somewhere.
Let's go!
Wait, Tails.
[Ripping cloth]
Really, I feel just fine, Cosmo.
I don't care.
It's better to be safe,
than sorry, I always say.
Ahh.
I just hope they're okay.
I can't get rid of
this bad feeling.
If that Emerald is
buried underground,
things could get kind of dangerous.
Don't worry.
If things get scary, at
least Knuckles is there.
He wouldn't let anything
happen to them, Chris,
'cause he's tough.
Chao!
Don't sweat it, buddy.
I got it covered.
If something goes wrong,
I'll be there in a jiffy.
Thanks, Sonic.
Blue Typhoon to X Tornado!
Chris, do you read me?
I read you.
I just got a radio
message from Knuckles.
He says Tails and Cosmo are
trapped in a cave somewhere,
and he can't get through to them!
[Gasp]
Hm?
Hm? Hm.
You know, I really gotta
upgrade this thing when
we get outta here.
Like maybe add some
type of software
that allows you to cut through
subterranean rock formations.
Uh-huh.
I mean, it sure would
make it a lot easier
to find hidden Chaos Emeralds.
Plus, we'd have the ability to send
digitized contact signals
to and from wherever we might be.
Even if we're underground,
or outer space in some secret
high-tech laboratory somewhere.
[Babbles]
I'm so frightened.
Mother would know what to do.
Cosmo?
Huh?
You okay?
Uh-huh. Just daydreaming.
Ah!
Hey, look, Cosmo!
Like some kind of
fireflies or something.
Ah!
I wonder where they're going?
Yeah! Let's follow 'em.
Huh?
Whoa!
[Grunting]
There's a whole avalanche
worth of rocks here.
Something must've
jarred them loose.
[Grunting]
Just listen to him in there,
showing off with those
big, silly claws of his.
Say what you will, but I
have faith in Knuckles.
You should too.
I'm using the infrared
movement tracker,
but I can't seem to get
a reading from anywhere.
It looks like a system
of inter-connected caves,
and I'm guessing there must be
more than one way down there.
So while Knuckles is
busy boulderizing,
we can snoop around for a bit.
Let's hurry.
It must be awful
spooky in that place.
I don't like to think
of them down there.
Chao chao...
Cheer up! We'll find them.
Hm!
[Metarex growling]
This is a nightmare.
I think we're both having
the same bad dream.
Ah.
The Chaos Emerald is located
somewhere in this complex.
Ready, Cosmo?
Mm.
[Metarex growls]
Huh?
Hm.
[Panting]
A whole room full of Emeralds.
It's some kind of...
manufacturing plant.
This must be the real one.
They're feeding off it, somehow.
So they'll all have the
same kind of power.
Huh!
This explains the counterfeit one
that Metarex had on Planet Breezy!
[Gasp]
You're right! It looked so
real, it fooled all of us.
And now there's a whole
factory full of them.
Why would they be doing this?
I don't know.
It's weird, but if I can hack into
their computer system somehow,
we just may be able
to find an answer.
Some kind of strange code...
I can't decipher it.
It says here, Operation Duplicate,
with a list of key Chaos
Emerald components.
Let's see...
Stabilized energy,
93% compression rate,
distillation of properties...
You mean you can read this?
Only some.
But I'm not all that familiar
with a lot of the
more technical data.
Wish I could help more.
You helped a lot, Cosmo!
Now let's download this
information right away.
We'll look at the data when we
get back to the Blue Typhoon.
Will you help me translate?
Sure! I'd love to.
It's the least I can do after
this mess I've gotten you into.
But Cosmo,
we wouldn't have discovered all
of this if it weren't for you.
[Metarex growls]
Intruders!
Cosmo! Get the real Emerald!
I will teach you not to trespass.
You're not wanted here.
Stay away from there!
[Growling]
[Grunting]
Oof!
[Metarex screaming]
[Panting]
[Alarms sound]
Attention!
Intruders have removed
the Chaos Emerald.
They must not escape.
[Evil laughter]
The Chaos Emerald will show us
exactly where they're hiding.
How convenient.
[Gasp]
Huh?
I hate to say it, Tails,
but I think the Emerald is
leading them right to us.
I've got a plan.
I knew there was something
funny about these fireflies.
What do you mean?
They're tiny robots powered by
the energy of Chaos Emeralds.
Same components and everything.
Tails, you're a genius!
Heh.
[Beeping]
Impossible!
We'll be safe now that
we threw off the Metarex.
And we'll be out
of here in no time!
Sure.
We'll be okay.
The light, it reminds me
of how Mother made me feel.
Like nothing bad could happen.
It's just so bright,
and warm, and loving.
Yeah, I guess Chaos Emeralds
have that effect on folks.
Ya know, it's kind of interesting.
You could be in the
worst kind of danger,
but once you hold a Chaos
Emerald in your hand,
you feel a lot safer.
When I was a young girl,
my older sister Galaxina
used to tell me
the legend of the Chaos Emeralds.
And I...
I used to dream that one day,
I would hold one in my hand, and
feel all of its magical power.
A power that is greatest
when it's used by those who are
pure of heart and intention.
I don't understand.
It's power depends on
those who use it, you see.
Like Sonic, for instance.
Sonic uses it for goods, so
only good can come of it.
But then there are those,
like the Metarex or Dr. Eggman,
who use it for purposes of evil.
That's when the power turns
into something dark
and destructive.
Huh?
What's the matter?
Oh, Tails. I'm not worthy to
be touching the Chaos Emerald.
Please take it away from me.
Why, Cosmo?
Because my soul is filled up with
nothing but sadness and hatred.
Hatred for those monsters
who destroyed my planet.
And took away my family,
and my friends...
... and everything else
that was precious,
and left me all alone.
Huh.
There is no way any
good comes from me.
I will only bring you
evil and disaster.
Cosmo...
Ah!
[Grunting]
Give that back!
I'm afraid that that
is not possible.
Forget it, Tails.
We have to get out of here, now!
[Grunting]
I'm begging you.
[Evil laughter]
Perhaps you should listen
to your little friend.
[Metarex growling]
Okay.
I guess all you Meta-mutants
think you're pretty
tough, don'tcha?
Well, we're pretty tough, too!
And we've got good on our side,
which is more than you can say.
Tails, don't do it.
There's nothing to be afraid of.
I'll be okay.
[Grunting]
Ah!
[Growling]
Now!
[Gasp]
Stay away from that Emerald!
[Panting]
[Grunting]
Ah!
Let go of me, let go!
Oh, no, Tails!
I've had enough of
your foolishness.
[Whimpering]
Huh?
Tails! Cosmo! Do you read me?
[Growling]
Hurry! They've got us!
Not for long, buddy.
[Grunting]
[Metarex grumbles]
Who dares help the enemy?
I dare!
[Growling]
Hmph!
Ha!
[Growling]
Cosmo, are you okay?
Sure, I'm fine.
Man, that was close.
Hey, you two.
Chao chao!
You really are life-savers,
you know that?
Well, yeah.
Thank goodness, you're safe.
Now that the mean
monsters are gone,
and we can all go home.
That's right, Cream.
[Metarex growls]
Not so fast!
Don't let them get away!
Bring it on! We're ready for ya!
You want some more of this, huh?
- Get 'em, Sonic!
Hmmm... ha!
[Growling]
[Monster grunts]
Ahh! Oh!
Oof!
Chao!
[Gasp]
[Grunting]
[Blowing]
[Metarex groaning]
See, Cosmo?
Nothing but good can come
when you help your friends.
Right!
Let's go!
Sonic! I will destroy you!
Just try!
Wait!
Huh?
Up here, Sonic. Catch!
[Grunting]
Got it!
[Metarex growls]
[Chuckling]
Bye-bye!
[Metarex screams]
Ya know, I have a feeling
whatever's on here might
help us put an end
to their Planet Egg
plot once and for all.
Maybe the code will tell us where
all the Planet Eggs are hidden,
and we can save the galaxy.
Chao chao!
That's right! Good thing we have
our brilliant translator with us.
Huh?
Well, thanks Amy, but...
I feel like I put you
all in danger today.
That's silly.
Plus, we're used to dangerous
situations by now.
Danger is our middle name!
Chao chao!
[Wink]
Ah! [Giggling]
Well, let's get going, you guys.
We've still got plenty
of Metarex to mangle.
That's right.
And thanks to our friend Cosmo,
this time, we'll be
way ahead of 'em.
Right, gang?
ALL: Yeah!
[Grunt]
Ah! Finally!
Hm? Hm?
They must be around here somewhere.
Huh? Hey, where did
you guys come from?
[All laughing]
What's so funny?
Think you can stop chuckling
long enough to get me out of here?
Hey, come on! I mean it!
Get me out of here, guys!
Good. They have
fallen for our bait.
Soon, they and that fool Eggman
will be back clutching
Chaos Emeralds
in their greedy little hands.
And then, when they least
expect it, I'll strike!
How perfect.
One day, they will know the
true extent of my power.
But by then, it will be too late.